URL: https://www.strathallan.co.uk/open-days
Title: Visit us - Strathallan School | Leading Scottish Boarding School
Depth: 1

<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5CNR83J" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"></iframe> Visit us The best way to find out about life at Strathallan is to experience it for yourself. Open MorningExplore the essence of Strathallan at our next Open Morning on Saturday, 14th March 2026. See Strathallan in Action: Observe our pupils and teachers during a typical Saturday school day, and feel the vibrant atmosphere that sets Strathallan apart. Explore Our Campus: Discover our state-of-the-art facilities, beautiful grounds, and the unique environment where your child’s educational journey could unfold. Meet Key Staff: Engage with our Headmaster, teachers, and department heads, who are eager to share what makes Strathallan unique. Meet Our Pupils: Chat with current pupils and get their insight into life at Strathallan, from academics to extracurriculars and everything in between. Arrange One-to-One Appointments: Discuss your child's individual needs and aspirations with our dedicated staff during personalized sessions. Experience Our Game-Changing Education: Learn about the diverse range of activities and programs that help our pupils thrive both inside and outside the classroom. Whether you're considering Strathallan for your child or simply curious about what we offer, this is the perfect opportunity to meet our community, ask questions, and get a true feel for what makes our school so special.Our Open Morning is a free event, open to all, but spaces are limited and registration is required. Secure your spot today by clicking Register Now, or contact our Admissions Team at admissions@strathallan.co.uk.We can't wait to show you around.Register Now Book a visit Meet staff, explore our campus and discover where Strathallan could take you. Contact our Admissions Team to book a visit: Email: admissions@strathallan.co.uk Telephone: +44(0) 1738 812546 Make an Admissions Enquiry Request a ProspectusOrder your copy of our prospectus today and find out where you fit in.Request your copy Take a look aroundCan't wait to visit? Virtually explore our campus from the comfort of your home. Join us Take your first steps to joining the Strathallan family. Request a prospectus Make an admissions enquiry Arrange to visit us Cookie policy The Strathallan website uses cookies to improve your on-site experience. Find out more about cookies. Accept & Close Contact info Email Strathallan: info@strathallan.co.uk Telephone Strathallan: +44(0) 1738 812546 Search site Search