URL: https://www.strathallan.co.uk/glenbrae
Title: Welcome to Glenbrae! - Strathallan School | Leading Scottish Boarding School
Depth: 3

<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5CNR83J" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"></iframe> Welcome to Glenbrae! We do hope that you will agree that Glenbrae is both a friendly and a happy home for our boarders and day girls; a home that focuses on building positive relationships with peers and staff through kindness, support, tolerance and everyone doing their bit to ‘get it right’ and be involved. Miss WilsonThere is something for everyone, whether you like to play sports and make use of our in-house equipment, whether you like to play board games or giant tetris, watch films with a bowl of popcorn, read, sing, dance, cook, chat, take five minutes for a peaceful coffee, or learn how to apply stage make-up, play the guitar, or even put a debate together for inter-house. There is truly something for every single girl to get involved in. We enjoy birthday celebrations, weekend sweetie bars or ice cream sundaes, making pancakes and waffles or pizza with tutors, getting ready for events, or interhouse, preparing for House Music together, or just catching up with a quick chat. There are many opportunities to get involved and represent the House (as well as the School) in sport, art, music, performing arts, debating and academic endeavour. I hope you will find new interests and come to love the breadth of opportunity here in Glenbrae, and at Strathallan. We are supportive of each other – with the focus always on participation and not winning – we would rather a full team went out to compete and lose than ‘only’ send our best participants in each discipline. The girls enjoy gathering in the evenings and at weekends and we would encourage you to join in during these quieter moments, meeting new people and truly feeling that sense of belonging when you make common ground with others in the house. Most importantly, we want you to be happy in your home from home, allowing you to achieve great things and leave with fond memories and friends for life. Find out more about Boarding Join us Take your first steps to joining the Strathallan family. Request a prospectus Make an admissions enquiry Arrange to visit us Cookie policy The Strathallan website uses cookies to improve your on-site experience. Find out more about cookies. Accept & Close Contact info Email Strathallan: info@strathallan.co.uk Telephone Strathallan: +44(0) 1738 812546 Search site Search